add nx blog (#579)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-12-02-Nx.md

---
layout: post
authors: [dimitri_de_kerf]
title: 'One repo to rule them all'
image: /img/2019-12-02-Nx/nx-logo.png
tags: [Monorepo, Nx, Angular, NestJS]
category: Architecture
comments: true
---

1. [Intro](#intro)
2. [Monorepo](#monorepo)
3. [Nx](#nx)
4. [Full stack applications](#full-stack-applications)
6. [Conclusion](#conclusion)

# Intro

Imagine yourself working in a large organization with multiple teams, all working on an application that is part of the platform that the organization offers to its clients.
You get a set of requirements and start implementing your features.
After setting up your repository and all the tooling, you’re ready to go.
All goes well during the development process and you’ve come to the end to deliver your hard work.
After you’ve deployed your application on the platform, you’re introduced with a blank screen and a console log full of errors.

How can this happen?
Your team followed the requirements and all the contracts that were defined to communicate with several services.
Maybe these contracts got outdated in the meantime without you knowing it?
Were there breaking changes introduced?

> Or does the libraries you are using locally differs from the ones used in production and isn’t compatible anymore?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or does a library you are using locally differ from the ones used in production and isn’t compatible anymore?
```

It’s really difficult for a large organization to manage all the separate projects and to maintain the overview of all of them.
The complexity will increase and after a while the whole platform becomes unmanageable.

# Monorepo

The problems mentioned above led large software companies to transition the management of their separate projects by bringing them together under one repository: the monorepo.
Inside the monorepo, you have all the applications working together while you’re developing your app.
You’ll get feedback immediately when the service you’re calling returns a different answer than expected or when the page you are navigating to is located on another path.
When you're not sure how a service of the platform is working, you can just hop in the source code inside the repo to find out more about it.
Code sharing becomes a breeze, because all the code is available in one repository.

> You don’t have to deal anymore with npm packages for shared code in your organization or with the separate configurations, pipelines and versions of the shared libs.

Reviewer: Because there is only 1 package.json used for all projects.

But how can you start setting up a monorepo and what tools are required to do so?
Having to manage all this code in one repo can be really tedious to set up.
This is where Nx comes into play.

# Nx

[Nx](https://nx.dev/) provides you with the tools to help you develop into a monorepo.
Taking their experience, the creators of Nx set up the best practices to structure your repository in a maintainable way.

> Nx is built on top of the Angular CLI, offering you a way to create workspaces and scaffolding out of your apps.

Reviewer: I would mention that they also support React apps in their repository and that you can even configure your own builders to manage apps from other frameworks

Later on, you can use the features in the modules to compose your app.

If you want to take a look at the full example, please check out the nx-phone workspace here:
[https://github.com/DimiDeKerf/nx-phone](https://github.com/DimiDeKerf/nx-phone){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

## Testing
 
Nx supports modern tools that you’re familiar with, without the sometimes tedious way of setting them up.
You can easily use Jest and Cypress to cover your testing needs, with great CLI support.
The unit and end-to-end tests are both configured for the shop app that we've just created. They can be run by using `nx test shop` and `nx e2e shop`, respectively.
If you want to learn more about Jest or Cypress, be sure to check out the awesome blog posts that my colleagues have wrote:

[Testing Angulat with Jest](https://ordina-jworks.github.io/testing/2018/08/03/testing-angular-with-jest.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

[Cypress: a new kid on the E2E block](https://ordina-jworks.github.io/testing/2019/07/18/Cypress.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

## Code formatting

> <img src="{{ '/img/2019-12-02-Nx/prettier.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Prettier" class="image right">

Author: Yeah seems like the image wasn't included in the commit...

All your apps and libraries will be part of a dependency graph.

<img src="{{ '/img/2019-12-02-nx/dependency_graph.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Dependency graph"  class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 500px;">

The dependency graph will give you an up-to-date version of all the applications and services and the dependencies between them.
It can also help you to get a better understanding of the architecture.

## Building
When new code is introduced or something has been refactored, Nx will be able to find out which dependencies are affected by your changes.
This gives you the opportunity to only build the affected dependencies and only run the tests of those affected ones.
For your build pipeline, that means that testing the affected apps can greatly improve the build time when dealing with large workspaces.

For example, if we edit something in the shop app, our dependency graph will look like this:

<img src="{{ '/img/2019-12-02-nx/dependency_graph_affected.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Dependency graph of affected apps" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 500px;">

> Targetting the affected code can be done using the affected command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Targeting the affected code can be done using the affected command.
```

For example, if you want to run the unit tests for the affected code:
```
nx affected:test
```
Inside of your CI, you would like to compare the changes between your branch and master.
This can be done by appending the two branches on the previous command:
```
nx affected:test --base=origin/master --head=your-branch
```

## Restrictions
You may want to categorize libraries in different domains and limit the dependencies between those domains to improve maintainability.
Nx can help you with this, by restricting access between domains or by allowing the dependency flow to go only one way around.

> To configure and manage these restrictions, you can apply tags in the nx.json file for apps and libraries.

Reviewer: You also have to setup the linting rules in tslint.json ;)

# Full stack applications
With a monorepo, you can have both your frontend and your backend applications under the same repository.
This enables you to share code between them.
With Nx, you can do this by using libraries like mentioned before.
These libraries will expose the code using a public API.

The code inside these libraries can be imported afterwards in your apps, without having to fetch them from a npm registry.
Think about how easily you can share an interface between your frontend and backend, without having to break it on one side.
Whenever something changes in the API, both sides will get updated so they will both remain in sync.

# Conclusion
Having worked within a monorepo myself for the last months, I really appreciate the way it improved the daily workflow.
It encourages me to write more reusable code and to keep features small.

> Other teams may have the same requirements, so code can be easily migrated to libs.

Reviewer: Though beware to not create a giant "shared" lib. Any change to that will affect a lot of applications. It's better to have more small libs than less fat libs.

Switching between features is much easier and accessible, since I don’t have to check out another repository or getting familiar with the way of working of another team.

> Overall, I feel more connected with other developers and with the platform while building apps in the same repository.

Author: For now I haven't encountered any yet 😄
